And this video, we'll discuss code coverage
and test reports with Maven.
Now, if you're not using intelliJ, don't worry.
So in this video, I'll show you how to do the same thing
using Maven commands.
No IDEs required.
We can run Maven from the command line.
And this is very useful when running as part
of a DevOps build process,
using like continuous integration,
continuous deployment, CI/CD environments.
Now, as far as system requirements,
to complete these steps,
you must have Maven locally installed in your computer,
not with just the IDE.
You need to be able to run Maven from the command line.
If you don't have Maven installed,
follow the steps that I have here at the link,
maven.apache.org.
And then once installed, verify your Maven installation.
So open a terminal window or a command prompt window,
and then type, mvn -version.
And then, you should get information back,
as far as which version that you're using.
You see the version I have listed on the screen,
you don't have to use this exact version.
I would say, as long as you're using Maven 3.6 or higher,
then you'll be fine.
Let's look at our development process.
So in the first step, we're going to figure Maven
to find unit test.
And then, we'll run the unit test.
Next, we'll generate unit test reports.
And then finally, we'll generate code coverage reports.
Okay. Step one of configuring Maven to find unit tests.
Now, one thing that's interesting here is that
by default, Maven will not find JUnit5 test classes.
So I could even try this out at my command line.
I could just type, mvn clean test,
without doing anything special,
and it'll gimme the test results here.
And notice, it'll say, "Tests run: 0,"
even if my project has JUnit5 test classes,
Maven will not find it by default.
So we need to make some configs here,
so Maven can find the unit test.
We can resolve this
by using Maven SureFire Plugin version 2.22 or higher.
And our pom file will basically,
add a new section here for build, and we'll add in plugin,
so we're adding some functionality to Maven.
We'll add the Maven SureFire Plugin,
and we give the appropriate version
that I have listed here on the slide.
So then with step two,
we can test this out by running our unit test.
So then at command line, I can type, mvn clean test.
And then, we'll notice here that it found the test.
It ran nine tests, and it gave us the actual test results.
So at this point, Maven is smart enough now
to find JUnit5 test classes.
Okay. So moving ahead to step three of generating
unit test reports,
so we can use the Maven SureFire-Report plugin
to generate an HTML unit test report.
And we can do this by adding some entries here
in our pom.xml.
So we'll add another plugin entry here
for Maven SureFire-Report plugin
and give the appropriate version.
And there's some other information that we need to do here,
in this pom.xml.
So I'll go ahead and fill in the blanks here.
So we'll add this new execution section here.
And so during Maven's test phase,
we're going to execute the plugin goal,
maven-surefire-report-plugin:report.
So we're telling Maven, during the test phase,
execute the plugin goal, report.
And that's from the Maven SureFire-Report plugin.
And so we can test this out here.
So at the command line, we simply do a, mvn clean test.
So this will run the test
and execute the SureFire-Report plugin
to generate the HTML reports.
There's another command we need to run here,
to help with the reports.
By default, the reports don't have
any images or CSS styling.
So we can add support for these website resources
by doing, mvn site,
in case those will give us our images, CSS.
And then we make use of the other argument here,
DgenerateReports=false.
So here, we are saying,
"Hey, don't override the existing HTML reports
because we created those in the previous command."
Now, we can actually view the unit test reports.
So these files are generated in the directory,
target/site/surefire-report.html.
And then this is our actual SureFire Report.
So it has a summary, the list of packages,
and the test results.
And then, it has a list of the test cases.
And then, the actual method names here, for the test cases.
Now, let's discuss the idea of handling test failure.
So by default, the Maven SureFire plugin
will not generate reports if the test fail.
But we'd like to actually generate the reports
if the test pass or fail, because I want to see the results.
Even if the test failed,
I want to see the results in the actual HTML page.
So in my pom.xml, I can add a configuration here
for the Maven SureFire plugin.
So in the configuration section here,
for testFailureIgnore, I'll set the value to true.
Basically I'm saying,
"Generate the reports if test pass or fail."
And then if I run the test again,
then I'll see this given output here,
so I'll have the SureFire Report.
We see the failures,
if there was a test that failed,
and then the information here in the package list,
and the actual failure items there.
And over here, the test cases,
it'll point out which test case failed,
and the the actual failure detail.
So this is good information that you'd like to see
in the unit test report.
And now, let's talk about showing display name in reports.
By default, the Maven SureFire plugin
will not show @DisplayName in reports.
Even if you have it in your code,
it won't show it or display it.
So to show @DisplayName in reports,
we need to make some additional configurations here.
And so, this is where it gets a little bit scary,
because the configuration item is very,
I don't know, verbose.
We give this configuration here,
statelessTestsetReporter, but the key item here
is usePhrasedTestCaseMethodName, to true.
So that'll basically say,
"Hey, access or use the @DisplayName annotation,
and use that in the actual test reports."
So now, when I run it, and then view the actual reports,
then I'll see the normal information,
and the new item here is when they show Test Cases.
So instead of the actual method names,
they're actually honoring the @DisplayName annotation,
and using our text information that we've provided.